Hello everyone and welcome to this lecture.
This lecture I'm going to solve questions eight nine and ten and that will conclude.
Basically the exercise is questions for comparison logical operators and if statements.
All right.
So here I am asking you to write a code that takes an input from a user and indicates how many number
of digits do we have.
OK.
All right.
Let's see.
So first we're going to input the user data from the user to say x equals two ends.
We're gonna say input and we're going to ask the user to enter a positive number.
Okay that's our on that's when I say for example 40 tell me Okay let's take a look at X and X has the
value of 40 it looks good it's entered in a couple of cells and it's go ahead and compare basically
perform the comparison.
I mean I say okay if my number if X is simply less than or equal to zero.
So I'm saying okay if X is simply less then I'm sorry if x is greater than or equal to zero.
Right.
And if it's less than or equal to nine then we're going to print going to say okay single digit that
mean our number is a single digit in a second.
Else f sorry.
Else if my apologies if the number is between 10 and X
and ninety nine we're going to print normal the number is double digits right.
Okay.
It sounds good to say else if the number is between 100 and X
and nine nine nine.
Right.
Gonna say Okay print let's say you're going to call the three digits or triple digits and else if the
number is between a thousand right and X
and we're gonna do this as well between 9 9 9 9 2.
Okay.
Okay print and I say okay our
number is four digits.
Okay.
And then if none of this basically has been satisfied we're going to say OK.
Else which is.
Now that has been satisfied.
Masaki prints our number is greater than four digits.
Obviously can't keep going but that will you know will take us basically forever to the finish rate.
All right.
Let's take a look.
So here we have X equals to 40 right.
Let's run that then.
Well 40 is actually double vision because here we satisfy this condition right Senate.
For example let's actually remove this.
Let's delete this.
So d d to delete.
I'm going to copy this here just to put it in one single cell so x pasted here and let's remove the
D to remove the cells just to have it in one in one cell.
Let's run that into the number.
I'm going to say for example one hundred ten me well the number three digits looks good.
Let's run it again.
Number is 50.
Double digit.
Let's run it again.
Let's say a hundred thousand then.
Well number is greater than four digits.
Why.
Because we actually implemented this here.
Let's run it one more time we're going to see in nine nine nine for instance would tell me Well the
number three digits.
That means we satisfy this condition.
And so on so forth.
All right.
Question 9.
Let's write a code that takes an input from the user and indicates if it's even or odd.
That's actually pretty easy to say okay x equals two.
And we're going to say input and we're going to ask the user to enter a number right.
And then we're going to compare the number if it's divisible because remember X divided by two and let's
actually have ADD the condition if X is divided by two and the remainder was equals equals to zero.
That means we the number was even going to print even number.
I'm going to say OK.
Else we're going to print
odd number not off.
Obviously an odd number.
All right.
OK.
Looks good.
Let's give it a shot.
Let's run its internal number.
Let's say 5 then.
Well that's an odd number.
We know that five is our number and therefore even number that's running.
Let's try a large number.
Five hundred.
Even number.
Let's try let's say 5 1.
Odd number.
All right.
Let's get the last question here is that we wanted to write a code that takes the value of the dictionary
below which is here we have a dictionary with like let's say Sally with age 23.
Dina of age 30 and holy of age 50.
And what we asking to ask him to output only values that are twenty five in an output list.
OK.
That are more than 25 or greater than 25.
All right.
Let's see how can we do this.
Actually we did pretty much similar similar one before what we could do here.
I'm going to say OK let's define an output list first to define as an empty list here and I'm going
gonna say I'm going to say OK let's go ahead and what we could do first is that we can actually have
to kind of two solutions to this this issue.
OK.
What we could do is that we can convert that dictionary.
Take these values and put them into a list and that's actually pretty much the objective of this exercise
is to try to teach you how can we learn how can we actually convert from a dictionary kind of to enlist
or obtain the values from a dictionary here which is the key value pairs.
We wanted to obtain them and put them in a list.
How can we do that.
Okay x equals two lists.
And I'm going to say okay go to my dictionary dot values.
So when I say my dictionary dot values we apply that values method that will simply obtain only our
values 20 23 30 and 50.
Okay.
All right let's run that let's run that and let's take a look at X X has basically the values twenty
three 30 and 50.
Right.
And now we can simply implement or if condition and say okay if the value of x of 0 which is the first
index first element which is 23 was greater than 25 Okay what we could do we're going to say okay out
which is our empty list here.
When I do append and we're going to append basically whatever what's inside x of 0.
Right.
I'm going to say okay that's actually Peter as well.
Again one more time if X of 1 was greater than 25 out out dot append and I'm going to pass along our
x of 1.
Right.
And one more time I'm going to say if X of 2 which is simply here this value which is 50 was greater
than 25 we're going to say out dot appends and I'm going to pass along our value here x of 2.
All right let's run those and let's take a look at.
Outs and that's what we've got here we've got 30 and 50 which makes complete sense because simply we
didn't take Sally we only took you know like Deena values and holy value to 30 and 50 that are greater
than 25.
All right.
And that's pretty much all what I have for the section again.
Now you should be familiar with logical operators comparison operators and if statements.
Great job he should be proud of yourself.
Now we're actually pretty much ready to move along to the next section.
We're going to learn how can we do for loops.
We're going to learn how can we do functions as well and lambda expressions.
I hope you guys enjoy that lecture and see you in the next lecture.